{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1031{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 The study, \ldblquote Does Immigration Undermine Public Support for Social Policy?\rdblquote , by David Brady and Ryan Finnigan (B&F) criticizes the prominent thesis that immigration reduces public support for the welfare state. Instead, the authors put forward two alternative hypotheses, (i) the compensation hypothesis according to which immigration increases public support, and (ii) the chauvinism hypothesis that increasing immigration undermines only certain welfare attitudes. They argue that their empirical tests lends stronger support to the latter two than to the generic hypothesis.\par
Based on the deliberation phase of the replication challenge, we decided to assess the validity of the results by B&F by conducting three additional tests. We start with testing the sensitivity of the results by using, first, established crossvalidation approaches at the individual level and, second, leave-one-out approaches at the country level. These methods shed light whether the results are driven by influential outliers at the respective levels. As the explanatory variable is measured at the national level, the sensitivity to outliers at this level should be particularly considered.\par
This is additionally motivated by the distribution of the level-2 variables, percent foreign born and net migration, in Figure 1 of the original study. Moreover, we extend the time span under consideration to also include the 2016 ISSP survey. By extending the research design to a period with large influxes of migration in virtually every industrialized country, we construct a most-likely case to test the hypotheses brought forward by B&F. In addition, we conducted the same robustness checks for the 2016 extension, too. In contrast to our originally proposed research design, we did not run an interaction of the year dummies with the explanatory variables of interest as we lack a theoretical argument why the respective effects should have changed over time.\par
Our results suggest that the results of B&F are not particularly robust. Conducting a more rigorous test using crossvalidation and leave-one-out, we see that most of the estimated effects are dependent on the inclusion of certain countries in the analysis. This sensitivity also remains when extending the analysis to the 2016 sample. \par
Overall, this extension makes us reluctant to dismiss or confirm any of the outlined hypotheses, including the traditional hypothesis concerning the impact of migration on social welfare attitudes. Moreover, our replication attempts raised some concerns regarding the construction and overall validity of the country variables of interest which we were, however, not able to solve. What remains is the important insight that among the many choices a researcher has to take when conducting cross-national research, one very obvious one, case-selection and the associated variation in the explanatory variables, may be relevant for the conclusions drawn from the analyses. Sensitivity analyses may be helpful and necessary in this regard to assess the robustness of the obtained results.\par
The focus of our extension is to consider problems in the sampling procedure and case-selection for the results of B&F. It is motivated by Figure 1 shown in the original study according to which the increase and level in net migration or stock of migrants differs substantially between countries. Thus, we consider it important to assess whether the results change when we a) exclude single countries from the analysis and b) conduct the analysis with smaller subsets at the individual level. In order to ease visual inspection of the results, we present estimates as log odds in the figures. This ensures that the results are contrasted again a logical 0 instead to comparing to a 1 for odds ratios. However, there should not be any substantial differences between the estimates presented as log odds or odds ratios.\par
To examine whether the results are dependent on influential outliers at the country level, we apply a leave-one-out model, iteratively removing one country from the model and re-running the main analysis presented in Table 4 and 5 of the original study without additional country-level controls. If the estimates do not change compared to the full model, we can assume that this specific country is not an influential outlier. The results are shown with percent foreign born (Figure 1) and net migration (Figure 1) as independent variable. \par
As we can see in Figure 1, the results for percent foreign born in the original study of B&F are not robust against influential outliers. Considering especially the estimates on housing and healthcare, Australia, Ireland and Spain are influential outliers shaping the results massively. Considering the effect on providing social housing, we can see two-fold. In the original model, there is no significant result of percent foreign born. However, when removing Ireland from the model, the effect becomes negatively; when excluding Australia we have a positive effect. For healthcare provision we see the opposite effect: When excluding Australia or Spain from the model, the previous significant negative effect becomes insignificant.\par
Considering the results of the original study\rquote s Table 5 when using leave-one-out analysis shown in Figure 1, we see that Spain is an influential outlier for three out of the six dependent variables under consideration, indicating substantial positive effects (instead of null-results) when removing the outlier. Admittedly, this does not provide an answer which hypothesis on the relationship between immigration and welfare attitudes seems more valid. Yet, it suggests that original results by B&F do not allow to do so either.\par
To assess the sensitivity to outliers at the individual level, we use a crossvalidation approach based on by King et al. (2001). We subsample from the individuals in the full sample, using a random sample of 2/3 of the respondents in each subsample. The combined estimate is the average of the m = 10 separate estimates. Then, the variance of the combined estimate is the average of the estimated variances from within each analyzed (sub-) set, plus the sample variance in the point estimates across the (sub-) sets aggregated using formula 3 of King et al. (2001). Results are shown in Figure 3 and Figure 4. As we can see, subsampling on the individual level does not influence the substantial results in either of the models even though estimated variance slightly increases, as expected. Unlike cross-national level, the results do not seem to be affected by potential outliers at the individual level.\par
\par
We extended the study by additionally merging the 2016 ISSP data to the original research design. From 2006 to 2016 industrialized countries experienced a large influx of migrants from developing countries. This trend spans from Europe experiencing an influx of migrants from sub-Saharan Africa and Arabian countries, over the North American states facing immigration from Central and South America, to Australia and New Zealand from east Asian countries (Collier 2013). Most significantly, Europe faced a large influx of Syrian and Afghan migrants in 2015, which had signif icant impact on several industrialized countries both socially and politically (Ostrand 2015). This influx came along with political shocks in European political systems, resulting in increasing vote shares for anti-immigration parties and further erosion of the party systems in Europe (Mudde 2016). Furthermore, it increased social tension over the dispute on how to allocating resources for the refugees (Genschel/Jachtenfuchs 2017). This specific event constitutes a most likely case for the hypotheses articulated by B&F. The systematic differences in migration between the two periods under investigation allow us to properly test the hypotheses and provides evidence whether an increased share of foreign born actually decreases support for the welfare state.\par
Since the extension required us to also gather more country-level data, we had to supplement the percent foreign born and net migration for 2015 (as in the original study, lagged by one year). Due to data inaccessibility, we were not able to retrieve information for four countries in 2016. However, since B&F argue that their hypothesis should hold for industrialized countries in general, this should not be a major issue. In order to conduct a conservative extension, we decided to only extend the base model of B&F.\par
As one can see from Table 1, the extension to the 2016 data changed the estimates from B&F as such that the conclusion, supporting the chauvinism hypothesis, does not hold any more. The stock of migrants does not have any significant effect or provides negative results, indicating support for the traditional backlash hypothesis.\par
Concerning net migration in Table 2, we see that the chauvinism hypothesis holds in general. We find negative effects for welfare policies such as support for the unemployed and reducing income differences. For welfare policies like retirement support, social housing and healthcare we find positive effects. However, it is not always clear whether these effects should be denoted a clear indication of this hypothesis, since not all effects show in the expected direction.\par
What is even more important is the fact that our analysis of the extended data set to 2016 remains sensitive to country-level outliers as shown by Figure 5 and Figure 6 in the appendix.1 This indicates that this cross-national approach examining the relationship between immigration and welfare attitudes remains sensitive to the case selection. For example, Figure 5 indicates that there is no effect of percent foreign born on healthcare provision when removing Spain from the model. Our extension of the net migration model to 2016 in Figure 6 is the only model, were outliers are only slightly shifting the results. Nevertheless, we still see differences considering Germany and Spain. Unfortunately, this current analysis does not allow us to infer which countries drive the results systematically as the observed deviations appear very erratic. Nevertheless, they highlight once more the sensitivity of the results to the inclusion of single countries that may drive certain results.\par
Concluding, our extension shows that the results of B&F are not robust against an extension to a longer time-span and highly dependent on influential outliers. Our endeavour provides evidence that researchers should closely consider which cases to include to test their hypotheses. Overall, the high sensitivity of the results to the inclusion of certain countries suggests that we current setup makes it difficult to test and, more importantly, rule out certain hypotheses.\f1\par
}
 