{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1031{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria Math;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont2\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang7 Our research design departs from the assumption that the level of immigrant stock is not randomly as signed between countries. There are rather systemic reasons for the differences in the level and change of the share of foreigners/immigrant between countries. These may relate to the respective welfare state in a country or to its labour market characteristics. The respective welfare state system in a country, in turn, should to a large extent also reflect citizens\rquote  welfare state preferences.\par
For instance, some countries or subnational entities have more attractive labour market characteristics or welfare state conditions. This may incentivize migrants to settle in those countries, yet, it may also relate to the outcome variables of interest, namely citizens\rquote  attitudes towards welfare state policies. The authors themselves state in the article: \ldblquote Weak labor markets boost support for social policy and growing economies undermine support\rdblquote  (Brady & Finnigan 2014, 21)." They acknowledge that the outcome variable of interest is related to labour market characteristics, which themselves may be related to treatment assignment.\par
This has stimulated us to think more carefully about possibilities to identify the effect of immigrant stock on welfare state attitudes. The original design may not be able to estimate the causal effect of interest in light of the fact that assignment to treatment (share of immigrants) is not random across the countries but \f1\endash  quite likely \endash  systematically related to country characteristics, e.g. labor markets and the growth of a\f0\lang1031  \f1\lang7 country\rquote s economy. Hence, it might be useful to consider another design.\par
We attempt to address this endogeneity problem of the original study. We exploit the fact that the field\f0\lang1031  \f1\lang7 work of the most recent ISSP 2016 module took place during the a massive and quasi-exogeneous influx\f0\lang1031  \f1\lang7 of foreign-born namely the so-called \ldblquote refugee crisis\rdblquote  in 2016. As Germany used a system of fixed allocation\f0\lang1031  \f1\lang7 of refugees across the German L\f0\'e4nder that generates quasi-exogeneous variation, the so-called K\'f6nigssteiner Schl\'fcssel,1 we can exploit this variation in the foreign-born influx to estimate the respective effect on welfare state attitudes. Our design is therefore limited to units witin one single country, namely Germany. The latest ISSP wave includes a module which we can use (government module). The 2016 ISSP wave was fielded from April 2016 to September 2016 in Germany (6 months), allowing us to merge the respective region-monthly data on foreign-born influx to each respondent depending on her interview-month. Our treatment variable is the number of asylum applications in a particular federal state in a particular month. We collected these numbers from the reports \ldblquote Current figures on asylum\rdblquote  of the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees2. Hence, rather than using percent foreign born/net migration/the 10-year change in the percent foreign born as in the original study (Brady & Finnigan 2014) or the proportion of foreigners and change therof at the state level (Schmidt-Catran & Spies 2016) we are exploiting the recent large-scale and quasi-exogeneous variation in the influx of refugees. For each respondent that was surveyed in a particular month (e.g. a respondent from the state of Bavaria who was interviewed in April) we use the corresponding month-state specific number of applica tions as treatment variable.\par
If foreign-born influx has any effect on welfare state attitudes, our design should be likely to detect it, so we can think of our design as a most likely case. This is because the sudden and abrupt influx of refugees starting in the month of April 2016 and persisting throughout the rest of the year was highly salient in German citizens\rquote  everday life. To accomodate the thousands of new arrived refugees, housing and accomodation had to be provided all across the country. Even within municipalities that may not have had much contact with foreign-born immigrants in the past, so-called \ldblquote containers\rdblquote , i.e. temporary houses for refugees, were built up and a certain number of refugees were allocated to live in these houses. Thus, during the year of 2016, we believe that the the current foreign-born influx was highly visible and perceptible for people across the country. If there should be any effect on foreign-born influx on welfare state attitudes, our design should thus be able to detect such an effect.\par
We analyze the effect of the treatment variable on four outcome variables, which reflect the outcome variables of the original study. Yet, rather than considering the respondents\rquote  absolute value of approval of a certain welfare state policy, we take the different pre-treatment levels of welfare state attittudes within certain regions into account. Therefore, we construct the outcome variable as the individual deviation from the pre-treatment (2006) region-specific mean on the respective welfare state policy in question. More formally, speaking: Yi,dev = Yi, f ederalstate,2016 \f2\u8722?\f0  Y\'aff ederalstate,2006. Because we look at the individual deviation from the region-specific pre-treatment mean, we estimate a linear model.\par
Table\f3  \f0 1\f3  \f0 provides\f3  \f0 summary\f3  \f0 statistics\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 all\f3  \f0 our\f3  \f0 variables\f3 . \f0 The\f3  \f0 results\f3  \f0 are\f3  \f0 shown\f3  \f0 in\f3  \f0 Table\f3  \f0 2\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 3\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 the different\f3  \f0 outcome\f3  \f0 variables\f3 . \f0 While\f3  \f0 there\f3  \f0 are\f3  \f0 some\f3  \f0 statistically\f3  \f0 significant\f3  \f0 effects\f3  \f0 in\f3  \f0 bivariate\f3  \f0 models\f3 , \f0 these disappear\f3  \f0 when\f3  \f0 adding\f3  \f0 controls\f3 . \f0 As\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 effects\f3  \f0 seem\f3  \f0 small\f3  \f0 we\f3  \f0 refrain\f3  \f0 from\f3  \f0 discussing\f3  \f0 practical\f3  \f0 signficance and\f3  \f0 conclude\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 given\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 data\f3  \f0 at\f3  \f0 hand\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 design\f3  \f0 we\f3  \f0 chose\f3  \f0 there\f3  \f0 does\f3  \f0 not\f3  \f0 seem\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 be\f3  \f0 evidence\f3  \f0 that the\f3  \f0 influx\f3  \f0 of\f3  \f0 refugees\f3  \f0 had\f3  \f0 any\f3  \f0 impact\f3  \f0 on\f3  \f0 welfare\f3  \f0 state\f3  \f0 attitudes\f3 .\f0\par
While\f3  \f0 we\f3  \f0 thought\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 impact\f3  \f0 of\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 refugee\f3  \f0 crisis\f3  \f0 represents\f3  \f0 a\f3  \f0 most\f3  \f0 likely\f3  \f0 case\f3  \f0 we\f3  \f0 do\f3  \f0 not\f3  \f0 find\f3  \f0 an effect\f3  \f0 across\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 different\f3  \f0 attitudinal\f3  \f0 scales\f3 .\f0 3\f3  \f0 One\f3  \f0 reason\f3  \f0 could\f3  \f0 be\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 contexts\f3  \f0 we\f3  \f0 compare\f3  \f0 are\f3  \f0 still\f3  \f0 too big\f3 , \f0 e\f3 .\f0 g\f3 . \f0 that\f3  \f0 one\f3  \f0 would\f3  \f0 need\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 exploit\f3  \f0 variation\f3  \f0 on\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 level\f3  \f0 of\f3  \f0 neighborhoods\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 be\f3  \f0 better\f3  \f0 able\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 tackle the\f3  \f0 question\f3 . \f0 Or\f3  \f0 one\f3  \f0 could\f3  \f0 even\f3  \f0 make\f3  \f0 an\f3  \f0 attempt\f3  \f0 at\f3  \f0 measuring\f3  \f0 respondents\rquote\f3  \f0 individual\f3  \f0 experiences\f3  \f0 with and\f3  \f0 contact\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 immigrants\f3 .\f0\par
Our\f3  \f0 general\f3  \f0 impression\f3  \f0 is\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 literature\f3  (\f0 e\f3 .\f0 g\f3 . \f0 Brady\f3  & \f0 Finnigan\f3  \f0 2014\f3 , \f0 Schmidt\f3 -\f0 Catran\f3  & \f0 Spies\f3  \f0 2016\f3 ) \f0 is somewhat\f3  \f0 vague\f3 . \f0 It\f3  \f0 does\f3  \f0 not\f3  \f0 properly\f3  \f0 define\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 treatment\f3  (\f0 and\f3  \f0 contrast\f3  \f0 between\f3  \f0 treatment\f3  & \f0 control\f3 ) \f0 nor does\f3  \f0 it\f3  \f0 clearly\f3  \f0 specify\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 theoretical\f3  \f0 mechanism\f3 , \f0 i\f3 .\f0 e\f3 . \f0 the\f3  \f0 causal\f3  \f0 paths\f3  \f0 connecting\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 share\f3  \f0 of\f3  \f0 foreigners etc\f3 . \f0 and\f3  \f0 welfare\f3  \f0 state\f3  \f0 attitudes\f3 . \f0 Ultimately\f3 , \f0 a\f3  \f0 direct\f3  \f0 causal\f3  \f0 effect\f3  \f0 of\f3  \f0 immigration\f3  \f0 on\f3  \f0 welfare\f3  \f0 state\f3  \f0 attitudes requires\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 there\f3  \f0 is\f3  \f0 a\f3  \f0 causal\f3  \f0 path\f3 , \f0 i\f3 .\f0 e\f3 . \f0 that\f3  \f0 individuals\f3  \f0 make\f3  \f0 an\f3  \f0 intellectual\f3  \f0 connection\f3  \f0 between\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 two phenomena\f3 . \f0 In\f3  \f0 our\f3  \f0 view\f3  \f0 it\f3  \f0 is\f3  \f0 rather\f3  \f0 unlikely\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 many\f3  \f0 individuals\f3  \f0 make\f3  \f0 such\f3  \f0 a\f3  \f0 connection\f3 .\f0\par
More\f3  \f0 generally\f3  \f0 we\f3  \f0 conclude\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 it\f3  \f0 is\f3  \f0 extremely\f3  \f0 hard\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 produce\f3  \f0 reliable\f3  \f0 empirical\f3  \f0 evidence\f3  \f0 regarding the\f3  \f0 question\f3  \f0 at\f3  \f0 hand\f3  \f0 using\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 ISSP\f3 . \f0 In\f3  \f0 other\f3  \f0 words\f3 , \f0 it\f3  \f0 is\f3  \f0 our\f3  \f0 impression\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 using\f3  \f0 the\f3  \f0 ISSP\f3  \f0 with\f3  \f0 all\f3  \f0 its limits\f3 , \f0 the\f3  \f0 hypothesis\f3  \f0 is\f3  \f2\emdash\f3  \f0 at\f3  \f0 least\f3  \f0 when\f3  \f0 we\f3  \f0 interpret\f3  \f0 it\f3  \f0 causally\f3  \f2\emdash\f3  \f0 not\f3  \f0 testable\f3 .\f0\lang7\par
}
 